Add documentation for Create Porter's Configuration file under Task (#2045)
getporter/porter: docs/content/end-users/configuration.md

---
title: Create a Porter Config File
description: Learn how to customize Porter's default behavior through configuration file
---

Porter's default behavior, such as log level and default plugins, etc., can be modified through its config file.
The config file also provides the ability to define plugin specific
configurations, so you don't need to repeat them each time when you run porter.

## Location

The configuration file should be stored in the PORTER_HOME directory, by default
~/.porter/. In the example below, we are going to use the yaml format, however,
porter supports other file formats for its config file as well. For more detailed
information, please see [configuration](/configuration/#config-file).

First check if you have PORTER_HOME set on your machine:
```console

> $ echo $PORTER_HOME

Reviewer: The porter documentation should always show commands that work in any shell (like porter commands) or we need to provide an example for each shell (Bash + Powershell).

I think the docs here could be redone pretty easily to avoid "bash-isms" by not setting the PORTER_HOME env var (which I honestly don't recommend anyone should set anyway unless they really need to change the home directory which we aren't doing here). Then you can reference were to locate the config file with "in your PORTER_HOME directory, which defaults to ~/.porter" and leave it up to them to find the directory.

```

If it returns nothing, that means your PORTER_HOME is the default value,
~/.porter/. For consistency of this example, let's create the environment
variable like so:
```console
$ export PORTER_HOME=~/.porter/
```

After making sure you have the PORTER_HOME environment variable set, let's
create the config file in PORTER_HOME.

```console
$ touch $PORTER_HOME/config.yaml
```

## Configure Plugins

By default, Porter uses the [host plugin](/plugins/host) for resolving secrets and the [mongodb-docker](/plugins/mongodb-docker) as the storage
plugin. In the examples below, we will see how to configure Porter to use other plugins. 

> ### change the default secrets plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Change the default secrets plugin
```

The default host plugin does not provide the functionality to work with bundles
that work with sensitive data.
Next, configure Porter to use the [filesystem](/plugins/filesystem) as the secret plugin so that you can work with sensitive data.
The filesystem plugin stores secrets in your PORTER_HOME directory. It is suitable for trying out Porter, and local development and testing, but should not be used in production.

Once you have the newly created config file open in your choice of editor, let's
change the default secret plugin to [filesystem](/plugins/filesystem):
```yaml
default-secrets-plugin: "filesystem"
```

After saving this change to the config file, you will be able to work with
bundles that contains sensitive parameters or outputs on your local machine. Be
aware that the [filesystem](/plugins/filesystem) stores sensitive data in plaintext on your filesystem.
Use either the [azure-keyvault](/plugins/azure-keyvault) or [hashicorp-vault](/plugins/hashicorp-vault) plugin in production.

> ### change the default storage plugin

Reviewer: Headings should either use normal sentence casing or title case and just be consistent on the same page.

```suggestion
### Change the default storage plugin
```

The default mongodb-docker storage plugin runs in a docker container, storing
its data in a volume named `porter-mongodb-docker-plugin-data`. It's not suitable for production use. 
To switch it out to another storage plugin, like MongoDB, open Porter's config file again and
add below code, setting the url property to a valid connection string:
```yaml
# Use the storage configuration named devdb
default-storage: "devdb"

> storage:
>   name: "devdb"
>   plugin: "mongodb"
> 
> storage.config:
>   # Set the url property to a valid Mongo connection string
>   url: "TODO_REPLACE"

Reviewer: I think the syntax you are using there relies on some very specific behaviors of our configuration library and I would prefer for us to the same format in the docs (that doesn't rely on a bug or behavior we may change later):

```suggestion
storage:
  name: "devdb"
  plugin: "mongodb"
  config:
    # Set the url property to a valid Mongo connection string
    url: "TODO_REPLACE"
```

---
title: Create a Porter Config File
description: How to customize Porter through configuration file
aliases:
- operators/configuration/
---

> Porter's default behavior, such as log level, default plugins, etc., can be modified through its config file.

Reviewer: Marking as unresolved since the change wasn't accepted or replied to.

The config file also provides the ability to define plugin specific
configurations, so you don't need to repeat them each time when you run porter.

## Location

The configuration file should be stored in the PORTER_HOME directory, by default
~/.porter/. In the example below, we are going to use the yaml format, however,

> porter supports other file format for its config file as well. For more detailed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
porter supports other file formats for its config file as well. For more detailed
```

information, please see [configuration](/configuration/#config-file).

First check if you have PORTER_HOME set on your machine:
```console
$ echo $PORTER_HOME
```

If it returns nothing, that means your PORTER_HOME is the default value,
~/.porter/. For consistency of this example, let's create the environment
variable like so:
```console

> $ echo PORTER_HOME=~/.porter/

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this do not use the `echo` command for the environment variable to be defined and then stored?

> $ echo PORTER_HOME=~/.porter/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ export PORTER_HOME=~/.porter/
```

```

After making sure you have the PORTER_HOME environment variable set, let's
create the config file in PORTER_HOME.

```console
$ touch $PORTER_HOME/config.yaml
```

## Configure Plugins

> By default, Porter uses [host secret plugin](/plugins/host) for resolving secrets and [mongodb-docker](/plugins/mongodb-docker) as the storage
> plugin. In the examples below, we will see how to configure Porter to use other plugins. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Porter uses the [host plugin](/plugins/host) for resolving secrets and the [mongodb-docker](/plugins/mongodb-docker) as the storage
plugin. In the examples below, we will see how to configure Porter to use other plugins. 
```

> ### change default secret plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Change the default secrets plugin
```

The default host plugin does not provide the functionality to work with bundles

> that requires/generates sensitive data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that work with sensitive data.
```

> For demoing purpose, we will configure Porter to use the [filesystem](/plugins/filesystem) as the secret plugin so that we can work with sensitive datat.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, configure Porter to use the [filesystem](/plugins/filesystem) as the secret plugin so that you can work with sensitive data. The filesystem plugin stores secrets in your PORTER_HOME directory. It is suitable for trying out Porter, and local development and testing, but should not be used in production.
```

Once you have the newly created config file open in your choice of editor, let's
change the default secret plugin to [filesystem](/plugins/filesystem):
```yaml

> default-secrets-plugin: "filesystem"

Reviewer 2: And this as well. Or will using `: ` have the same effect as ` = `?

```

> 

Author: For this portion, should we show what it would look like running a bundle that contains sensitive data using the host plugin vs after changing to filesystem plugin?

Reviewer: You could have them run a bundle with "sensitive" data (not actual sensitive data), and then point out that any secrets were persisted by porter in PORTER_HOME/secrets.

> After saving this change to the config file, you will be able to work with
> bundles that contains sensitive parameters or outputs on your local machine. Be
> aware that the [filesystem](/plugins/filesystem) does not provide any security
> for you data. Please use either the [azure-keyvault](/plugins/azure-keyvault) or [hashicorp-vault](/plugins/hashicorp-vault) plugin in production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After saving this change to the config file, you will be able to work with
bundles that contains sensitive parameters or outputs on your local machine. Be
aware that the [filesystem](/plugins/filesystem) stores sensitive data in plaintext on your filesystem. Use either the [azure-keyvault](/plugins/azure-keyvault) or [hashicorp-vault](/plugins/hashicorp-vault) plugin in production.
```

> ### change default storage plugin

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Change the default storage plugin
```

The default mongodb-docker storage plugin runs in a docker container, storing

> its data in a separate volume. It's not suitable for production use. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
its data in a volume named `porter-mongodb-docker-plugin-data`. It's not suitable for production use.
```

> To switch it out to another storage plugin, like MongoDB, open Porter's config file again and
> add below code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To switch it out to another storage plugin, like MongoDB, open Porter's config file and
add below code, setting the url property to a valid connection string:
```

> ```yaml

Reviewer: This example uses a mix of yaml and toml when it should be just yaml.

# Use the storage configuration named devdb
default-storage = "devdb"

> default-storage-plugin: "mongodb"

Reviewer 2: I assume this should've use ` = ` instead of `: ` like the `default-storage` property above.

> default-storage-plugin: "mongodb"

Reviewer: Can you remove the `default-storage-plugin` setting? It isn't used when `default-storage` is set.

[[storage]]
  name = "devdb"
  plugin = "mongodb"

  [storage.config]

>     url = "conn_str"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Set the url property to a valid Mongo connection string
    url = "TODO_REPLACE"
```

>     timeout = 10 # time in seconds

Reviewer: I think we can leave off timeout here since it's not really necessary to accomplish the section's task "setting the plugin to mongodb".

```

> This plugin allows Porter to store its data in a [MongoDB](/plugins/mongodb) server instance and is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [mongodb plugin](/plugins/mongodb/) allows Porter to store its data in a MongoDB server instance and is
```

suitable for production use.

> If you would like to learn more about Poter's configuration file, see
> [here](/configuration).

Reviewer: For consistency, all pages should have a Next Steps section that links to relevant documentation. Also as a best practice for any writing online, use link text that describes where the link will go and don't use generic terms like "here" to be more accessible for people using screen readers.

```suggestion
## Next Steps

* [Configuration File Format](/configuration/)
* [Available Plugins](/plugins/#available-plugins)
```
